Docs review sql deployment (#8417)
Particular/docs.particular.net: transports/sql/deployment-options.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reviewed: 2026-24-07
```

---
title: Deployment options

> reviewed: 2026-24-07

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reviewed: 2026-07-24
```

The SQL Server Transport offers several deployment options for the queue tables.

## Default

> In the default mode all tables for all endpoints exist in a single schema of a single catalog. Given two endpoints, Sales and Billing, here's the mapping of the endpoint names to the queue table names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the default mode, all tables for all endpoints exist in a single schema of a single catalog. Given two endpoints, Sales and Billing, here is the mapping of the endpoint names to the queue table names:
```

| Endpoint | Queue table name                                                      |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sales    | `[sql_server_instance_01]`.`[nsb_database]`.`[nsb_schema]`.`[Sales]`  |
| Billing  | `[sql_server_instance_01]`.`[nsb_database]`.`[nsb_schema]`.`[Billing]`|

This mode does not require any transport-specific addressing configuration so it is easy to set up.

The snapshot (backup) of the entire system state can be done by backing up a single database. It is especially useful if business data is also stored in the same database.

## Multi-schema

> In the multi-schema mode queue tables exist in a single catalog and may belong to different schemas. A schema can contain queues of one or more endpoints. Given two endpoints, Sales and Billing, here's the mapping of the endpoint names to the queue table names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the multi-schema mode, queue tables exist in a single catalog and may belong to different schemas. A schema can contain queues of one or more endpoints. Given two endpoints, Sales and Billing, here is the mapping of the endpoint names to the queue table names:
```

| Endpoint | Queue table name                                                      |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sales    | `[sql_server_instance_01]`.`[nsb_database]`.**`[sales_schema]`**.`[Sales]`     |
| Billing  | `[sql_server_instance_01]`.`[nsb_database]`.**`[billing_schema]`**.`[Billing]` |

In order to use this mode transport-specific [addressing](/transports/sql/addressing.md) information has to be provided to map endpoints and/or queues to schemas.

The snapshot (backup) of the entire system state can be done by backing up a single database. It is especially useful if business data is also stored in the same database.

## Multi-catalog

> In the multi-catalog mode queue tables exist in multiple catalogs provided all these catalogs are in the same SQL Server instance. Given two endpoints, Sales and Billing, here's the mapping of the endpoint names to the queue table names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the multi-catalog mode, queue tables exist in multiple catalogs provided all these catalogs are in the same SQL Server instance. Given two endpoints, Sales and Billing, here is the mapping of the endpoint names to the queue table names:
```
